docs/security/landlock.mdx, before:

---
title: Linux Landlock
description: How nono uses Landlock LSM on Linux for kernel-level enforcement
---

nono uses Landlock LSM (Linux Security Module) on Linux to enforce capability restrictions at the kernel level.

## What is Landlock?

Landlock is a Linux security module that allows unprivileged processes to sandbox themselves. Unlike traditional LSMs (SELinux, AppArmor) that require root configuration, Landlock can be used by any process to restrict its own capabilities.

Landlock was merged into Linux kernel 5.13 (2021) and has been enhanced in subsequent releases.

## How nono Uses Landlock

nono uses the `landlock` Rust crate to:

1. Detect the available Landlock ABI version
2. Create a ruleset with the allowed operations
3. Add path rules for each granted capability
4. Apply the ruleset to the current process

```rust
// Simplified: what nono does internally
let ruleset = Ruleset::new()
    .handle_access(AccessFs::from_all(abi))?
    .create()?;

ruleset.add_rule(PathBeneath::new(PathFd::new(path)?, access))?;
// ... add more rules ...

ruleset.restrict_self()?;
// After this call, restrictions are permanent
```

## ABI Versions

Landlock capabilities have evolved across kernel versions:

| Kernel | ABI | New Capabilities |
|--------|-----|------------------|
| 5.13+ | v1 | Basic filesystem access control |
| 5.19+ | v2 | `REFER` - rename/link across directories |
| 6.2+ | v3 | `TRUNCATE` - file truncation |
| 6.7+ | v4 | TCP `bind` and `connect` filtering |
| 6.10+ | v5 | `IOCTL_DEV`, signal/socket scoping |

nono automatically detects the highest available ABI and uses it. On older kernels, some features are unavailable but core filesystem sandboxing still works.

## Access Rights Mapping

nono maps its capability flags to Landlock access rights:

### Read Access (`--read`)

```rust
AccessFs::ReadFile
AccessFs::ReadDir
AccessFs::Execute
```

### Write Access (`--write`)

```rust
AccessFs::WriteFile
AccessFs::MakeChar
AccessFs::MakeDir
AccessFs::MakeReg
AccessFs::MakeSock
AccessFs::MakeFifo
AccessFs::MakeBlock
AccessFs::MakeSym
AccessFs::RemoveFile  // File deletion (needed for atomic writes)
AccessFs::Refer       // Rename/hard link across directories (ABI v2+)
AccessFs::Truncate    // ABI v3+
```

Note: `RemoveDir` is intentionally excluded for safety - directory deletion is blocked even within writable paths.

### Full Access (`--allow`)

Both read and write access rights combined.

## Network Filtering

Landlock ABI v4 (kernel 6.7+) added TCP network filtering:

```rust
AccessNet::BindTcp   // Control which ports can be bound
AccessNet::ConnectTcp // Control outbound connections
```

<Warning>
  Network filtering requires kernel 6.7+. On older kernels, nono cannot enforce network restrictions via Landlock and will warn you.
</Warning>

## Enforcement Status

nono reports the enforcement status after applying the sandbox:

| Status | Meaning |
|--------|---------|
| `FullyEnforced` | All requested restrictions are active |
| `PartiallyEnforced` | Some restrictions active, others unavailable (older kernel) |
| `NotEnforced` | Landlock not available on this system |

Use `-v` to see the enforcement status:

```bash
nono run -v --allow . -- command
# Output includes: Sandbox status: FullyEnforced
```

## Checking Landlock Availability

```bash
# Check if Landlock is in the LSM list
cat /sys/kernel/security/lsm
# Should include "landlock"

# Check kernel version
uname -r
# 5.13+ required, 6.7+ for network filtering
```

### Enabling Landlock

If Landlock is not listed in `/sys/kernel/security/lsm`, you may need to:

1. **Check kernel config**: Ensure `CONFIG_SECURITY_LANDLOCK=y`
2. **Add to boot params**: Add `lsm=landlock,lockdown,yama,integrity,apparmor,bpf` to kernel boot parameters
3. **Reboot**

Most modern distributions (Ubuntu 22.04+, Fedora 35+, Debian 12+) have Landlock enabled by default.

## Irreversibility

Once `restrict_self()` is called:

- The ruleset is permanently applied
- No API exists to add more permissions
- Child processes inherit the restrictions
- The only escape is a kernel exploit

This is enforced by the kernel - nono cannot undo it even if it wanted to.

## Debugging

If a command fails with permission errors:

1. **Run with dry-run**: See what capabilities would be granted
   ```bash
   nono run --allow . --dry-run -- command
   ```

2. **Check verbose output**:
   ```bash
   nono run -vvv --allow . -- command
   ```

3. **Check dmesg for Landlock denials**:
   ```bash
   dmesg | grep -i landlock
   ```

4. **Use strace**: See which syscalls are being denied
   ```bash
   strace -f nono run --allow . -- command 2>&1 | grep EACCES
   ```

## Limitations

### Kernel Version Requirements

- Basic sandboxing requires kernel 5.13+
- Full filesystem control requires kernel 6.2+
- Network filtering requires kernel 6.7+

### No Network Filtering on Older Kernels

Without ABI v4 (kernel 6.7+), Landlock cannot filter TCP connections. nono will warn if you use `--net-block` on an older kernel. On kernels 6.7+, nono uses Landlock's `AccessNet::BindTcp` and `AccessNet::ConnectTcp` to block TCP traffic.

Note: DNS resolution (UDP) is not blocked by Landlock, only TCP connections.

### Bind Mounts

Landlock follows bind mounts. If `/home` is bind-mounted to `/mnt/home`, access to one affects the other. This is usually not a concern but can be surprising in complex mount configurations.

### Special Filesystems

Landlock may behave differently with special filesystems (procfs, sysfs, etc.). nono does not grant access to these by default.

## References

- [Landlock documentation](https://landlock.io/)
- [Kernel documentation](https://docs.kernel.org/userspace-api/landlock.html)
- [landlock-rs crate](https://docs.rs/landlock/latest/landlock/)
- [LWN article on Landlock](https://lwn.net/Articles/859908/)

Commit message:

fix: include RemoveDir in Landlock write access for atomic dir rename()

docs/security/landlock.mdx, after:

---
title: Linux Landlock
description: How nono uses Landlock LSM on Linux for kernel-level enforcement
---

nono uses Landlock LSM (Linux Security Module) on Linux to enforce capability restrictions at the kernel level.

## What is Landlock?

Landlock is a Linux security module that allows unprivileged processes to sandbox themselves. Unlike traditional LSMs (SELinux, AppArmor) that require root configuration, Landlock can be used by any process to restrict its own capabilities.

Landlock was merged into Linux kernel 5.13 (2021) and has been enhanced in subsequent releases.

## How nono Uses Landlock

nono uses the `landlock` Rust crate to:

1. Detect the available Landlock ABI version
2. Create a ruleset with the allowed operations
3. Add path rules for each granted capability
4. Apply the ruleset to the current process

```rust
// Simplified: what nono does internally
let ruleset = Ruleset::new()
    .handle_access(AccessFs::from_all(abi))?
    .create()?;

ruleset.add_rule(PathBeneath::new(PathFd::new(path)?, access))?;
// ... add more rules ...

ruleset.restrict_self()?;
// After this call, restrictions are permanent
```

## ABI Versions

Landlock capabilities have evolved across kernel versions:

| Kernel | ABI | New Capabilities |
|--------|-----|------------------|
| 5.13+ | v1 | Basic filesystem access control |
| 5.19+ | v2 | `REFER` - rename/link across directories |
| 6.2+ | v3 | `TRUNCATE` - file truncation |
| 6.7+ | v4 | TCP `bind` and `connect` filtering |
| 6.10+ | v5 | `IOCTL_DEV`, signal/socket scoping |

nono automatically detects the highest available ABI and uses it. On older kernels, some features are unavailable but core filesystem sandboxing still works.

## Access Rights Mapping

nono maps its capability flags to Landlock access rights:

### Read Access (`--read`)

```rust
AccessFs::ReadFile
AccessFs::ReadDir
AccessFs::Execute
```

### Write Access (`--write`)

```rust
AccessFs::WriteFile
AccessFs::MakeChar
AccessFs::MakeDir
AccessFs::MakeReg
AccessFs::MakeSock
AccessFs::MakeFifo
AccessFs::MakeBlock
AccessFs::MakeSym
AccessFs::RemoveFile  // File deletion (needed for atomic writes)
AccessFs::RemoveDir   // Directory deletion (needed for rename() on directories)
AccessFs::Refer       // Rename/hard link across directories (ABI v2+)
AccessFs::Truncate    // ABI v3+
```

Note: `RemoveFile` and `RemoveDir` are both included because `rename()` requires removal rights on the source. This enables atomic write patterns (write to `.tmp` then rename to target) for both files and directories.

### Full Access (`--allow`)

Both read and write access rights combined.

## Network Filtering

Landlock ABI v4 (kernel 6.7+) added TCP network filtering:

```rust
AccessNet::BindTcp   // Control which ports can be bound
AccessNet::ConnectTcp // Control outbound connections
```

<Warning>
  Network filtering requires kernel 6.7+. On older kernels, nono cannot enforce network restrictions via Landlock and will warn you.
</Warning>

## Enforcement Status

nono reports the enforcement status after applying the sandbox:

| Status | Meaning |
|--------|---------|
| `FullyEnforced` | All requested restrictions are active |
| `PartiallyEnforced` | Some restrictions active, others unavailable (older kernel) |
| `NotEnforced` | Landlock not available on this system |

Use `-v` to see the enforcement status:

```bash
nono run -v --allow . -- command
# Output includes: Sandbox status: FullyEnforced
```

## Checking Landlock Availability

```bash
# Check if Landlock is in the LSM list
cat /sys/kernel/security/lsm
# Should include "landlock"

# Check kernel version
uname -r
# 5.13+ required, 6.7+ for network filtering
```

### Enabling Landlock

If Landlock is not listed in `/sys/kernel/security/lsm`, you may need to:

1. **Check kernel config**: Ensure `CONFIG_SECURITY_LANDLOCK=y`
2. **Add to boot params**: Add `lsm=landlock,lockdown,yama,integrity,apparmor,bpf` to kernel boot parameters
3. **Reboot**

Most modern distributions (Ubuntu 22.04+, Fedora 35+, Debian 12+) have Landlock enabled by default.

## Irreversibility

Once `restrict_self()` is called:

- The ruleset is permanently applied
- No API exists to add more permissions
- Child processes inherit the restrictions
- The only escape is a kernel exploit

This is enforced by the kernel - nono cannot undo it even if it wanted to.

## Debugging

If a command fails with permission errors:

1. **Run with dry-run**: See what capabilities would be granted
   ```bash
   nono run --allow . --dry-run -- command
   ```

2. **Check verbose output**:
   ```bash
   nono run -vvv --allow . -- command
   ```

3. **Check dmesg for Landlock denials**:
   ```bash
   dmesg | grep -i landlock
   ```

4. **Use strace**: See which syscalls are being denied
   ```bash
   strace -f nono run --allow . -- command 2>&1 | grep EACCES
   ```

## Limitations

### Kernel Version Requirements

- Basic sandboxing requires kernel 5.13+
- Full filesystem control requires kernel 6.2+
- Network filtering requires kernel 6.7+

### No Network Filtering on Older Kernels

Without ABI v4 (kernel 6.7+), Landlock cannot filter TCP connections. nono will warn if you use `--net-block` on an older kernel. On kernels 6.7+, nono uses Landlock's `AccessNet::BindTcp` and `AccessNet::ConnectTcp` to block TCP traffic.

Note: DNS resolution (UDP) is not blocked by Landlock, only TCP connections.

### Bind Mounts

Landlock follows bind mounts. If `/home` is bind-mounted to `/mnt/home`, access to one affects the other. This is usually not a concern but can be surprising in complex mount configurations.

### Special Filesystems

Landlock may behave differently with special filesystems (procfs, sysfs, etc.). nono does not grant access to these by default.

## References

- [Landlock documentation](https://landlock.io/)
- [Kernel documentation](https://docs.kernel.org/userspace-api/landlock.html)
- [landlock-rs crate](https://docs.rs/landlock/latest/landlock/)
- [LWN article on Landlock](https://lwn.net/Articles/859908/)
