docs/getting_started/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: How to install nono on your system
---

# Installing nono

## Homebrew (macOS)

```bash
brew tap lukehinds/nono 
brew install nono
```

<Note>
  The package is not in homebrew official yet, [give us a star](https://github.com/lukehinds/nono) to help raise our profile for when request approval
</Note>

## Linux Package Managers

We are in the process of packaging nono for popular Linux distributions. In the meantime, you can use the prebuilt binaries or build from source.

## Building from Source

See the [Development Guide](development/index.md) for instructions on building nono from source.

## Where next?

I expect you want to get going with nono and a coding agent. Here are some of the current documented clients
- [Claude Code](/clients/claude-code.md)
- [OpenClaw](/clients/openclaw.md)
- [OpenCode](/clients/opencode.md)

<Note>
  If there is an Agent you want supported please open an issue or PR to add it! Its fairly straightforward to add new ones, and we will be adding more over time.
</Note>

Alternatively, you can check out the [Usage](/usage) for details on installing nono on your system.

## Platform Support

| Platform | Mechanism | Status |
|----------|-----------|--------|
| Linux (kernel 5.13+) | Landlock LSM | Supported |
| macOS | Seatbelt (sandbox_init) | Supported |
| Windows | - | Not supported |

Commit message:

Fix CWD prompt decline to continue gracefully instead of aborting
Declining the CWD sharing prompt now logs an info message and continues
execution without CWD access, instead of returning a fatal error. This
fixes a regression where commands that don't need filesystem access
(e.g., nono run -- curl ...) would fail if the user declined the prompt.

Remove the now-unused UserDeclinedCwd error variant. Fix confusing
installation docs sentence that referenced the Usage guide for
installation details.

Signed-off-by: Luke Hinds <lukehinds@gmail.com>

docs/getting_started/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: How to install nono on your system
---

# Installing nono

## Homebrew (macOS)

```bash
brew tap lukehinds/nono 
brew install nono
```

<Note>
  The package is not in homebrew official yet, [give us a star](https://github.com/lukehinds/nono) to help raise our profile for when request approval
</Note>

## Linux Package Managers

We are in the process of packaging nono for popular Linux distributions. In the meantime, you can use the prebuilt binaries or build from source.

## Building from Source

See the [Development Guide](development/index.md) for instructions on building nono from source.

## Where next?

I expect you want to get going with nono and a coding agent. Here are some of the current documented clients
- [Claude Code](/clients/claude-code.md)
- [OpenClaw](/clients/openclaw.md)
- [OpenCode](/clients/opencode.md)

<Note>
  If there is an Agent you want supported please open an issue or PR to add it! Its fairly straightforward to add new ones, and we will be adding more over time.
</Note>

Alternatively, you can check out the [Usage](/usage) guide to learn how to use nono.

## Platform Support

| Platform | Mechanism | Status |
|----------|-----------|--------|
| Linux (kernel 5.13+) | Landlock LSM | Supported |
| macOS | Seatbelt (sandbox_init) | Supported |
| Windows | - | Not supported |
